# Predicting fluorescent labels of spheroids from brightfield microscopy
This repository includes the software to train models to predict fluorescent images from brightfield images as described in the MSc thesis 'Predicting fluorescent labels of spheroids from brightfield microscopy'. This research was performed at the Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland (FIMM) under supervision of dr. Lassi Paavolainen and dr. Vilja Pietiäinen.

## Abstract
Spheroids are 3D cell culture models that are able to mimic the in vivo microenvironment of the solid tumor and are essential tools in anti-cancer drug efficacy research. One of the methods to detect differences in drug treatment in spheroids is fluorescence microscopy, but this method is slow, toxic, and error-prone. However, brightfield microscopy does not require specific labeling but is lacking in clear contrast. Therefore, a method that combines brightfield microscopy with fluorescence microscopy is needed to provide a low-cost and high-resolution method. Here we present models that show the potential to accurately predict the fluorescent labels from brightfield images. We show that the models are capable of detecting, learning, and predicting different subcellular structures and the localization of spheroids from images that were not used in training. The general appearance of the spheroid was predicted reasonably well, but detailed information at the single-cell level was lacking. We demonstrate that there is a correlation between the prediction error and the pixel intensity showing that the fluorescent signal is harder to predict than the background. Further tuning of (hyper)parameters could lead to better prediction performance, thereby offering the potential to improve drug screening by making it easier, faster, and cheaper
